---
title: "Week Six (Laravel PHP Framework)"
date: 2023-03-10
layout: post
---

This week I spent a good amount of time reading about laravel (PHP web framework) Just like python has flask or django as web frameworks, PHP has a couple as well. Laravel is different from other PHP web frameworks in several ways.

Laravel has a wide range of built-in features that make it easy to build complex web applications. These features include routing, middleware, authentication, database migrations, and a powerful ORM called Eloquent. This documentation covers this very well (https://laravel.com/docs/10.x/eloquent)

Laravel's Blade templating engine allows me to write simple and reusable templates that can be used across multiple pages in a web application. Blade offers a range of features, including conditional statements, loops, and template inheritance, that make it easy to create dynamic and responsive web pages. Using this documentation I can create templates to be reused across the web application.(https://laravel.com/docs/10.x/blade)

To create a Laravel app you can run this command "composer create-project laravel/laravel example-app". Then you will cd into example-app and run "php artisan serve" this will serve a local development server for your system.

The .env file is a very important file that comes with the laravel app. The .env file is a configuration file that stores sensitive information and environment-specific settings. It is used to configure the application's behavior based on the environment in which it is running, such as local development, staging, or production. The .env file contains key-value pairs that define environment variables, which can be accessed throughout the application using the env function or the Config facade. For example database credentials The .env file can store the credentials needed to connect to a database, such as a database name, username, and password.

My goal is to use this framework and build upon it each week to run a small web application that stores and fetches data using API. Maybe something like a simple weather API that has user authentication. I am very excited!

The code can be found here (https://github.com/osamaibraheem11/softwareEngineeringBlog/tree/main/codeExamples/weekSix)
